- Ian, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hey, Michael, good to see you again.
- Yeah, great to see you again.
It has been a little while.
It seems like not so long ago,
and yet when I pull up the episode that we did together,
sure enough, it says March 7th, 2018.
Wow.
- Years are short.
The years are short.
They go by really fast.
- They sure do.
So back then, we were talking about Python
and biology and genomics,
and it sounds like you're still doing genetic-type things
and still doing Python and all that kind of stuff.
- For sure, yeah, definitely.
I work for a company called Genome Oncology.
We do precision oncology software,
helping folks make sense of genomics
and trying to help cancer patients.
- That's awesome.
There's different levels of helping people with software.
On one level, we probably have ad retargeting.
On the other, we've got medical benefits
and looking for helping people
who are suffering socially or whatever.
So it's gotta feel good to write software
that is making a difference in people's lives.
- That's right.
I did spend a lot of the 2000s making e-commerce websites,
and that wasn't exactly the most fulfilling thing.
I learned a lot, but it wasn't as exciting
as what I'm doing now,
or at least as fulfilling as what I'm doing now.
- Nice.
Were those earlier websites in Python?
- No.
So yeah, I mean, that was all Java for the most part.
And finally, with this company,
I knocked out a prototype in Django a few years ago,
and my boss at the time was like, "You did that so fast.
"You should do some more stuff in Python."
So that's kinda how it evolved.
And now, basically, most of our core back end is Python,
and we use a lot of Svelte for the user interfaces.
- Okay, beautiful.
It's easy to forget.
Like five years ago, 10 years ago,
people were questioning whether Python
is something you should use.
Is it a real language?
Do you really use it?
Is it safe to use?
Maybe you should use a Java or a C# or something like that,
because this is a real project.
It's interesting.
I don't hear that nearly as much anymore, do you?
- No, no.
I grew up a Boston sports fan,
and it was like being a Boston sports fan was terrible
for the longest time.
And now it's like, okay,
we don't wanna hear about your problems right now.
And same thing with Python.
It's like, I like Python.
It's like, yeah, great.
So does everybody else in the world.
So yeah, it's really not the issue anymore.
Now it's not the cool thing to play with,
so now you gotta go to Rust or something else.
- You know what's shiny?
LLMs are shiny.
- LLMs are very shiny, for sure.
- Yeah, we can talk about them today.
- Yeah, that sounds great.
Let's do it.
- All right, before we do that, though,
just, you know, it has been a good five years
since you've been on the show.
It's helped people.
I guess you already introduced yourself.
- Yeah, okay.
- So let's jump in.
So first of all, we're gonna talk about
building applications that are basically
powered by LLMs that you plug into, right?
- Yep, yep.
- Before we get into creating LLMs,
just for you, where do LLMs play a role for you
in software development these days?
- Sure, so, you know, like everybody else,
I had been playing with,
so I do natural language processing as part of my job,
right, so using spaCy was a big part
of the information extraction stack that we use,
'cause we have to deal with a lot of medical data,
and medical data's just unstructured
and has to be cleaned up before it can be used.
So that was my exposure.
I had seen GPTs and the idea of generating text,
just starting from that,
didn't really make much sense to me at the time.
But then obviously, like everybody else,
when ChatGPT came out, I was like, oh, I get this now.
This thing does, it can basically learn in the context,
and it can actually produce something that's interesting,
and you can use it for things like information extraction.
So just like everybody else, I kind of woke up to 'em
around that time that they got released,
and I use 'em all the time, right?
So ChatGPT 4 is really what I use.
I would recommend, if you can afford the $20 a month,
it's still the best model that there is as of January 2024,
and I use that for coding.
I don't really like the coding tools, the copilots,
but there's definitely folks that swear by them.
My workflow is more of I have a problem,
work with the chatbot to try to think
through all the edge cases,
and then think through the test case, the tests,
and then I think through the code, right?
And then the actual typing of the code, yeah,
I'll have it do a lot of the boilerplate stuff,
but then kind of shaping the APIs and things like that.
I kind of like to do that myself still.
I'm kind of old school. - Yeah.
- Old school.
- I guess I'm old school as well,
'cause I'm like right there with you.
- Yeah, yeah.
- For me, I don't generally run copilot
or those kinds of things in my editors.
I do have some features turned on,
but primarily it's just really nice autocomplete.
You know what I mean?
It seems like it almost just knows
what I want to type anyway, and that's getting better.
I don't know if anyone's noticed recently,
one of the recent releases of PyCharm,
it starts to autocomplete whole lines,
and I don't know where it's getting this from,
and I think I have the AI features turned off.
At least it says I have no license.
Guessing that means they're turned off.
So it must be something more built into it,
and that's pretty excellent.
But for me, I find I'm pretty content
to just sit and write code.
However, the more specific the unknowns are,
the more willing I'm like,
oh, I need to go to ChatGPT for this.
Like for example, how do you use Pydantic?
Well, I'll probably just go look at a quick code sample
and see that so I can understand it.
But if I have this time string
with the date like this, the month like this,
and then it has the time zone like that,
how do I parse that?
Or how do I generate another one like that in Python?
And here's the answer.
Or I have this giant weird string,
and I want this part of it as extracted
with a regular expression.
- Right, regular expression, I was just gonna say that.
- Oh my gosh.
- You don't have to write another one of those.
Yeah, it's great.
- Yeah, it's pretty much like,
do you need it to detect the end of a line
straight to ChatGPT?
Not really, but it's like almost any level
of regular expression.
I'm like, I need some AI for this,
'cause this is not time well spent for me.
But yeah, it's great.
- Yeah, one big tip I would give people though
is that these chatbots, they wanna please you.
So you have to ask it to criticize you.
You have to say, here's some piece of code,
tell me all the ways it's wrong, right?
And you have to also ask for lots of different examples,
because it just starts to get more creative,
more things that it says.
It really thinks by talking,
which is a really weird thing to consider.
It's definitely some things to keep in mind
when you're working with these things.
- And they do have these really weird things.
Like if you compliment them, or if you ask it,
you sort of tell it, like, I really want you to tell me.
It actually makes a difference, right?
It's not just like a search engine.
Like, well, of course, what does it care?
Just put these keywords in and they come out.
Like, no, you've kind of got to like,
you gotta talk to it a little bit.
- I've seen people threatening them,
or like saying that someone's being held ransom,
or, you know, I like to say, my boss is really mad at me.
Like, help me out here, right?
And like, see if it'll generate some better code.
- Look, you're not being a good user.
You're trying to trick me.
I've been a good chatbot, and you've been a bad user,
and I'm not gonna help you anymore.
That was actually basically a conversation
from being in the early days.
- Yeah, the Sydney episode, yeah, that was crazy, right?
Super funny.
- How funny?
All right, well, I'm sure a lot of people out there
are using AI these days.
I think I saw a quote from, I think it was from GitHub,
saying that over 50% of developers are using Copilot,
which, crazy, but I mean, not that surprising.
50% of the people are using autocomplete,
so I guess it's kind of like that, right?
- They're great tools, they're gonna keep evolving.
There's some other ones I'm keeping an eye on.
There's one called Console,
which just takes a different approach.
They use some stronger models.
And then there's a website called Find, P-H-I-N-D,
that allows you to do some searching,
that they've built their own custom model.
Really interesting companies
that are doing some really cool things.
And then Perplexity is like the search replacement
that a lot of folks are very excited about using
instead of Google.
So there's a lot of different tools out there.
You could spend all your day just kind of playing around
and learning these things,
but you gotta actually kind of get some stuff done, too.
- Yeah, you gotta pick something and go, right?
Because with all the churn and growth
and experimentation we got,
you probably could try a new tool every day
and still not try them all, you know?
- Exactly, right.
- Just keep falling farther behind,
but you gotta pick something and go.
- And go, yep.
- Let's talk about writing some code.
- Yeah, the next thing you're gonna do
after you use a chatbot is to hit an API.
Like if you're gonna program an app
and that app is gonna have LLM inside of it,
large language models inside of it,
APIs are pretty much the next step, right?
So OpenAI has different models that are available.
This is a webpage that I just saw recently
that'll actually compare the different models
that are out there.
And there's obviously the big guy, which is OpenAI,
and you can get that through Azure as well
if you have a Microsoft arrangement.
And there's some security reasons or HIPAA compliance
and some other reasons that you might want
to talk through Azure instead of going directly to OpenAI.
I defer to your IT department about that.
Google has Gemini, which they just released the pro version,
which I believe is as strong as 3.5, roughly.
That is interesting because if you don't care
about them training on your data,
if like whatever you're doing is just like
not super proprietary or something
you're trying to keep secret,
they're offering free API access
at I believe 60 words per minute, right?
So basically one a second, you can call this thing
and there's no charge.
So I don't know how long that's gonna last.
So if you have an interesting project
that you wanna use in a large language model for,
you might wanna look at that.
- Especially if it's already open data
that you're playing with.
- Exactly right.
- Data you've somehow published to the web
that just certainly been consumed by these things.
- Yep, and these models are gonna train on it, right?
That's the trade, right?
They're trying to get more tokens,
is what they call it, right?
The tokens are what they need to actually
make these models smarter.
So everyone's just hunting for more tokens
and I think this is part of their strategy for that.
And then there's also a CLAUDE by Anthropic.
And then after that, you get into the,
kind of the open source APIs as well.
- There's some really powerful open source ones out there.
- Yep, and if you scroll down,
yeah, scroll down here.
- Yeah, this is DocSpot, for people listening,
DocSpot.ai and it,
is its sole purpose just to tell you
price comparisons and stuff like that?
Or does it have more?
- Yeah, I assume this company has got some product,
unfortunately I don't know what it is,
but I saw this link that they put out there
and it's a calculator.
So you basically can put your, what tokens,
how many tokens, there's input tokens
and there's output tokens, right?
So they're gonna charge more on the output tokens.
That's for the most part, some of the libraries,
some of the models are more equal.
And then they, what they do is,
if you can figure out like roughly how big a message
is gonna be, both the input and the output,
how many calls you're gonna make,
you can use that to then calculate basically the cost.
And the cost is always at like,
tokens per thousand,
or dollars or pennies really,
pennies per thousand tokens.
And then it's just a math equation at that point.
And what you'll find is,
calling GPT-4 is gonna be super expensive
and then calling, a small seven,
what's called a 7B model from Mistral
is gonna be the cheapest.
And you're just gonna look for these different providers.
And there was really a--
- Those really are different.
Like for example, opening an Azure GPT-4 is,
three, a little over 3 cents per call.
Whereas GPT-5 Turbo is 1/10 of 1 cent.
It's a big difference there.
11 cents versus $3 to have a conversation with it.
That's just--
- It's crazy.
It's a very wide difference.
And it's all based on,
how much compute do these models take, right?
'Cause the bigger the model, the more accurate it is.
But also the more expensive it is for them to run it.
So that's why there's such a cost difference.
- Yeah, recently interviewed,
just released a while ago,
interviewed because of time shifting on podcast,
Mark Russinovich, CTO of Azure.
And we talked about all the crazy stuff that they're doing
for coming up with the,
just running these computers that handle all of this compute
and it's really a lot.
- Yep, for sure, for sure.
It's, there's so many,
and there was a GPU shortage for a while.
I don't know if that's still going on.
And obviously, the big companies are buying
hundreds of thousands of these GPUs
to get the scale they need.
- Yeah.
- And so once you figure out which API you wanna use,
then you wanna talk about the library.
So now, most of these providers,
they have a Python library that they offer.
I know OpenAI does and Google Gemini does,
but there's also open source ones, right?
'Cause they're not very complicated to talk to.
It's just basically HTTP requests.
So it's just really a matter of like,
what's the ergonomics you're looking for as a developer
to interact with these things.
And most importantly,
make sure you're maintaining optionality, right?
Like, it's great to do a prototype
with one of these models,
but recognize you might wanna switch,
either for cost reasons or performance reasons
or what have you.
And, you know, LangChain, for instance,
has a ton of the providers as part of,
you basically are just switching a few arguments
when you're switching between them.
And then Simon Willison has, you know,
a Python fame, has an LLM project
where he's defined, you know, basically a set of,
and it's really clean just the way he's organized it,
because you can just add plugins as you need them, right?
So you don't have to install
all the different libraries that are out there.
And I think LangChain is kind of following
a similar approach there.
I think they're coming up with a LangChain core capability
where you can just kind of bring in things as you need them.
And so the idea is you're now coding against these libraries
and you're trying to bring together, you know,
the text you need to have analyzed
or whatever your use case is,
and then it'll come back with the generation.
And you can also not just use them on the cloud,
you can use open source ones as well
and run them locally on your local computer.
- I'd never really thought about
my architectural considerations,
I guess, of these sorts of things.
But of course you want to set up
some kind of abstraction layer
so you're not completely tied into some provider.
It could be that it becomes too expensive.
It could be that it becomes too slow,
but it also might just be something that's better.
It could be something else that comes along that's better
and you're like, "Eh, we could switch, it's 25% better."
But it's like a week to pull all the details
of this one LLM out and put the new ones in,
and so it's not worth it, right?
So you like having, being tied to a particular database
rather than more general--
- Especially at this moment in time, right?
Every couple months, something,
so something from the bottom up
is getting better and better,
meaning LLAMA came out a year ago
and then LLAMA 2 and Mistral and Mixtral,
and LLAMA 3 is gonna be coming out later
this year, we believe.
And so those models, which are smaller
and cheaper and easier to use,
or not easier to use, but they're just cheaper,
is, those things are happening all the time.
So being able to be flexible and nimble
and kind of change where you are
is gonna be crucial, at least for the next couple years.
- Yeah, the example that I gave was databases, right?
And databases have been kind of a known commodity
since the '80s, or what, 1980s?
And of course, there's new ones that come along,
but they're kind of all the same,
and we got, there was MySQL,
now there's Postgres that people love, right?
So that is changing way, way slower than this.
And people are like, "Well, we gotta think about
those kinds of, don't get tied into that."
Well, sure, right?
- It's way less stable.
- Right, and people, and create layers of abstraction
there too, is where you got SQLAlchemy,
and then Sebastian from FastAPI has SQLModel,
that's a layer on top of SQLAlchemy.
And then there's also folks that just like
writing clean ANSI SQL, and you can hopefully
be able to port that from database to database as well.
So yeah, it's the same principles,
separation of concerns, so you can kind of be flexible.
- All right, so you talked about LangChain.
Just give us a sense real quick of what LangChain is.
- Yeah, I mean, this was a great project
from a timing perspective.
I believe they invented it and released it
right around the time Chats GPT came out.
It's a very comprehensive library with lots of,
I mean, the best part about LangChain to me
is the documentation and the code samples, right?
Because if you want to learn how to interact
with a different large language model,
or work with a vector database,
and there's another library called LamaIndex
that does a really good job at this as well.
They have tons and tons of documentation and examples.
So you can kind of look at those and try to understand it.
The chaining part really came from the idea of like,
okay, prompt the large language model gives a response,
and I'm gonna take that response and prompt,
again, with a new prompt using that output.
The challenge with that is the reliability
of these models, right?
They're not gonna get close,
they're not close to 100% accurate on these types of tasks.
The idea of agents as well as another thing
that you might build with a LangChain,
and the idea there is basically the agent is,
getting a task, coming up with a plan for that task,
and then kind of stepping through those tasks
to get the job done.
Once again, we're just not there yet
as far as those technologies,
just because of the reliability.
And then there's also a bunch of security concerns
that are out there too,
that you should definitely be aware of,
like one term to Google
and make sure you understand is prompt injection.
So Simon, once again, he's got a great blog,
and he's got a great blog article,
or just even that tag on his blog is,
tons of articles around prompt injection.
And prompt injection is basically the idea
of you have an app, a user says something in the app,
or like types into the whatever the input is,
and whatever text that they're sending through,
just like with SQL injection,
it kind of hijacks the conversation
and causes the large language model
to kind of do a different thing.
- Yeah, you'll hear a little Bobby Llama, we call him.
- Right, exactly right.
And then the other wild one is like,
people are putting stuff up on the internet,
so that when the large language model browses for webpages
and brings back text,
it's reading the HTML or reading the text in the HTML,
and it's causing the large language model
to behave in some unexpected way.
So there's lots of crazy challenges out there.
- I'm sure there's a lot of adversarial stuff
happening to these things,
as they're both trying to gather data
and then trying to run, right?
I saw the most insane,
I don't know, I guess it was an article,
I saw it on RSS somewhere.
It was saying that on Amazon,
there's all these knockoff brands
that are trying to, you know,
instead of Gucci, you have a Gucci or I don't know,
whatever, right?
And they're getting so lazy.
I don't know what the right word is,
that they're using LLMs to try to write a description
that is sort of in the style of Gucci, let's say.
- Right.
- And it'll come back and say,
"I'm sorry, I'm a large language model.
I'm not, my rules forbid me
from doing brand trademark violation."
- Right, right.
- That's what the Amazon listing says on Amazon.
They just take it and they just straight pump it straight.
Whatever it says, it just goes straight into Amazon.
- Yep, yep, yep.
You have to like Google like,
"Sorry, I'm not, sorry as a large language model,"
or "Sorry as a whatever."
Yeah, you can find all.
- Exactly, there's like,
the product listings are full of that.
It's amazing.
It's amazing. - It's crazy.
It's crazy.
- Yeah, but so certainly the reliability of that is,
you know, they could probably use some testing
and those kinds of things.
- For sure.
- Owen out there asks like,
"I wonder if for local LLM models,
there's a similar site as DocSpots
that show you like what you need to run it locally?"
So that's an interesting question also,
segue to maybe talk about like some local stuff.
- Yeah, so yeah, LLM Studio, this is a new product.
I honestly haven't had a chance to like really dig in
and understand who created this
and you know, make sure that the privacy stuff
is up to snuff, but I've played around with it locally.
It seems to work great.
It's really slick, really nice user interface.
So if you're just wanting to get your feet wet
and try to understand some of these models,
I'd download that and check it out.
There's a ton of models up on Hugging Face.
This product seems to just basically link right
into the Hugging Face interface and so, and grabs models.
And so some of the models you wanna look for
are right now as in January, right?
There's Mistral 7B, you know, M-I-S-T-R-A-L.
There's another one called Phi 2.
Those are two of the smaller models
that should run pretty well on, you know,
like a commercial grade GPU or an M1 or an M2 Mac,
if that's what you have and start playing with them.
And they're quantized, which means they're just kind of made
a little to take a little bit less space,
which is good from like a virtual RAM
with regards to these GPUs.
And you know, there's a account on Hugging Face
called the Bloke.
If you look for him, you'll see all his different fine,
there's different fine tunes and things like that.
And there's a group called Noose,
I think is how you pronounce it, N-O-U-S.
And they've got some of the fine tunes
that are basically the highest performing ones
that are out there.
So if you're really looking for a high performing
local model that can actually, you know,
help you with code or reasoning,
those are definitely the way to get started.
- Excellent.
Yeah, this one seems pretty nice.
I also haven't played with it, I just learned about it,
but it's looking really good.
I had played with, what was it, GPT for All?
I think it was. - Yep, yep, yep.
- Was the one that I played with.
Sometimes it looks a little bit nicer than that,
for some reason, I don't know how different it really is.
- No, I mean, it's all the idea of like downloading
these files and running them locally.
And these are just user interfaces
that make it a little easier.
You know, the original project,
the original project that made this stuff kind of possible
was a project called Llama CPP.
There's a Python library that can work with that directly.
There's another project called Llama File,
where if you download the whole thing,
it actually runs no matter where you are.
I think it runs on Mac and Linux and Windows and BSD
or whatever it is.
- Nice. - And it's, I mean,
it's an amazing technology that this one put together.
It's really impressive.
And then, you know,
you can actually just use Google Colab too, right?
So Google Colab has some GPUs with it.
I think if you upgrade it to the $10 a month version,
I think you get some better GPUs access.
So if you actually wanna get a hand of like running,
instead of, and so this is a little bit different, right?
So instead of calling an API,
when you're using Google Colab,
you can actually use a library called Hugging Face,
and then you can actually load these things
directly into your memory
and then into your actual, you know, Python environment,
and then you're working with it directly.
So it just takes a little bit of work
to make sure you're running it on the GPU,
'cause if you're running it on the CPU,
it's gonna be a lot slower.
- Yeah, it definitely makes a big difference.
There's a tool that I use that for a long time,
right on the CPU, and they rewrote it to run on the GPU.
Even on my M2 Pro,
it was like three times faster or something, you know?
- Yep, for sure, for sure.
- Yeah, it makes a big difference.
So with this, let's see here,
says some things that you can do.
Which one?
I've read a bunch of these all at the same time,
so I've gotta remember.
So with the LM Studio,
plus you run the LLMs offline and use models
through an open AI, that's what I was looking for,
the open AI compatible local server.
- Right, yeah, so--
- You could basically get an API for any of these
and then start programming against it, right?
- Exactly right, and it's basically the same interface,
right, so same APIs for posting in response
of the JSON schema that's going back and forth.
So you're programming against that interface,
and then you basically port it and move it to another,
to the open AI models if you wanted to as well.
So everyone's kind of coalescing around open AI
as kind of like the quote unquote standard,
but there's nothing, you know, there's really no,
there's no mode around that standard as well, right?
'Cause anybody can kind of adopt it and use it.
- There's not like a W3C committee choosing.
- Correct, correct.
And yeah, so--
- The market will choose for us, let's go.
- Yep, yeah, and it seems to be,
it seems to be working out well.
And that's another benefit of Simon's LLM project, right?
You can, he's got the ability to kind of switch back
and forth between these different libraries and APIs as well.
- Yeah, this LM Studio says,
"This app does not collect data nor monitor your actions.
Your data stays local on your machine,
free for personal use."
All that sounds great.
"For business use, please get in touch."
I always just like these, like,
if you gotta ask, it's too much to type.
- Probably, yeah.
- So I'm not using it for personal use,
just so if anybody's watching, yes.
Just plain out.
- Yeah, and it's, you know,
either they just haven't thought it through
and they just don't wanna talk about it yet.
- Sure, I think that's part of it.
- I just probably imagine it's probably,
it's like, "Ah, we haven't figured out a business model.
Just, I don't know, shoot us a note."
- Yep, they're concentrating on the product,
which makes sense.
- Yeah, so then the other one is Llamafile,
llamafile.ai that you mentioned.
This packages it up.
I guess, going back to the LM Studio real quick,
one of the things that's cool about this
is if it's the OpenAI API, right,
for this little local server that you can play with,
but then you can pick LLMs such as Llama, Falcon,
Replit, all the different ones, right,
Starcoder and so on.
It would let you write an app
as if it was going to OpenAI
and then just start swapping in models.
And go like, "Oh, if we switch to this model,
how'd that work?"
But you don't even have to change any code, right?
Just probably maybe a string that says
which model to initialize.
- Correct, well, you're getting to one of the tricks though
is then the prompts themselves, right?
So the models themselves, yeah,
the models themselves act differently.
And part of this whole world
is what they call prompt engineering, right?
So prompt engineering is really just exploring
how to interact with these models,
how to make sure that they're kind of
in the right mind space to tackle your problem.
A lot of the times that people get,
when they struggle with these things,
it's really just, they'd really got to think
more like a psychiatrist when they're working with a model.
Basically getting them kind of prepared.
One of the tricks people did, figured out early was,
you're a genius at software development,
like compliment the thing, make it feel like,
"Oh, I'm gonna behave like I'm a world rockstar programmer."
- Well, it's gonna give you average,
but if you tell them, "I'm genius,"
then let's start, we'll do that.
- Right, right, 'cause I mean,
'cause, and there was also a theory like that in December
that the large language models were getting dumber
because it was the holidays
and people don't work as hard, right?
It's really hard to know
which of these kind of things are true or not,
but it's definitely true that each model
is a little bit different.
And if you write a prompt that works really well
on one model, even if it's a stronger model
or a weaker model, and then you port it to another model
and it's, and that's the stronger model works worse, right?
It can be very counterintuitive at times
and you've got to test things out.
And that really gets to the idea of evals, right?
So evaluation is really a key problem, right?
Making sure that if you're gonna be writing prompts
and you're gonna be building different retrieval,
augmented generation solutions,
you need to know about prompt injection
and you need to know about prompt engineering
and you need to know what these things can and can't do.
You know, there's, you know,
one trick is what they call few shot prompting,
which is, you know, if you want it to do data extraction,
you can say, oh, okay, I want you to extract data
from texts that I give you in JSON.
If you give it a few examples,
like wildly different examples,
because the giving it a bunch of similar stuff,
it might kind of cause it to just coalesce
around those similar examples.
But if you can give it a wildly different set of examples,
that's called in context learning or few shot prompting,
and it will do a better job at that specific task for you.
- Okay, that's super neat.
When you're creating your apps,
do you do things like, here's the input from the program
or from the user or wherever it came from,
but maybe before that you give it like three or four prompts
and then let it have the question, right?
Instead of just taking the text,
like I'm gonna ask you questions about biology and genetics,
and it's gonna be under this context.
And I want you to favor these data sources.
Now ask your question, something like this.
- For sure, all those types of strategies
are worth experimenting with, right?
Like what actually will work for your scenario?
I can't tell you, right?
You gotta dig in, you gotta figure it out
and you gotta try different things.
And you can--
- You're about to win the Nobel Prize
in genetics for your work.
Now I'm gonna ask you some questions.
- For sure, for sure, that'll definitely work.
And then threatening it that your boss is mad at you
is also gonna help you too, right?
For sure.
- If I don't solve this problem, I'm gonna get fired.
As a large language model, I can't tell you,
but I'm gonna be fired.
All right, well, then the answer is.
- Right, right, exactly right.
- Okay, so for these, they run, like you said,
they run pretty much locally,
these different models on LM Studio
and others like the Llama file and so on.
- Yep, yep, and Lama.
- I don't need a cluster.
- Correct, correct.
Yeah, that's, I mean, Llama CPP is really the project
that should get all the credit
for making this work on your laptops.
And then Llama file and Llama CPP all have servers.
So I'm guessing LM Studio is just exposing that server.
And that's in the base Llama CPP project.
And that's really what it is.
It's really just about now you can post your requests.
It's handling all of the work
with regards to the token generation
on the backend using Llama CPP.
And then it's returning it to you
using the HTTP kind of processes.
- Is Llama originally from Meta?
Is that where that came from?
- Yeah, so yeah, I don't,
I think there were people that were kind of using that LLM.
I think people were kind of keying off
the Llama thing at one point.
I think Llama Index, for instance,
I think that project was originally called GPT Index
and they decided, oh, I don't wanna be like,
I don't wanna confuse myself with OpenAI
or confuse my project with OpenAI.
So they switched the Llama Index.
And then of course, Meta released Llama.
So, you know, you can't, you kinda,
and then everything from there has kind of evolved too.
Right, there's been alpacas
and a bunch of other stuff as well.
So, but the original Llama--
- If you don't know your animals, yeah.
If you don't know your animals,
you can't figure out the heritage of these projects.
- Correct.
But Llama from Meta was the first open source,
I'd say large language model of note,
I guess, since ChatGPT.
There were certainly other, you know,
I'm not a, so one thing to caveat,
I am not a researcher, right?
So there's lots of folks in the ML research community
that know way more than I do.
But, 'cause there was like Bloom and T5
and a few other large, you know,
quote unquote large language models.
But Llama, after ChatGPT, Llama was the big release
that came from Meta in, I think, March.
And then, and that was from Meta.
And then they had it released under just like
research use terms.
And then only certain people could access to it.
And then someone put a, I guess,
put like a BitTorrent link or something on GitHub.
And then basically the world had it.
And then they did end up releasing Llama 2
a few months later with more friendly terms.
So that, and it was a much stronger model as well.
- Nice.
It's kind of the realization, like,
well, if it's gonna be out there anyway,
let's at least get credit for it then.
- Yep, for sure.
- For sure.
And I did read something where like basically Facebook
approached OpenAI for access to their models
to help them write code.
But the cost was so high that they decided
to just go build their own, right?
So it's kind of interesting how this stuff has evolved.
- Like, you know, we've got a big cluster of computers.
- Right.
Metaverse thing doesn't seem to be working yet.
So let's go ahead and train a bunch of large language models.
- Pass it over in the Metaverse data center.
So one of the things that people will maybe talk about
in this space is RAG or retrieval augmented generation.
What's this?
- Yeah, so I think one thing to recognize
is that the large language models,
if it's not in the training set and it's not in the prompt,
it really doesn't know about it.
And the question of like, what's reasoning
and what's generalizing and things like that,
those are big debates that people are having.
What's intelligence, what have you.
But recognizing the fact that you have this prompt
and things you put in the prompt,
the large language model can understand
and extrapolate from is really powerful.
So, and that's called in context learning.
So retrieval augmented generation is the idea of,
okay, I'm gonna go, I'm going to maybe ask,
allow a person to ask a question.
This is kind of like the common use case that I see.
User asks a question, we're gonna take that question,
find the relevant content, put that content in the prompt
and then do something with it, right?
So it might be something like,
ask a question about,
how tall is the leaning tower of Pisa, right?
And so now it's gonna go off
and find that piece of content from Wikipedia
or what have you,
and then put that information in the prompt
and then now the model can then respond
to that question based on that text.
Obviously that's a pretty simple example,
but you can get more complicated
and it's going out and bringing back
lots of different content, slicing it up,
putting in the prompt and asking a question.
So now the trick is, okay,
how do you actually get that content
and how do you do that?
Well, information retrieval, search engines
and things like that, that's obviously the technique,
but one of the key techniques that people have been
kind of discovering, rediscovering, I guess,
is this idea of word embeddings or vectors.
And so Word2Vec was this project that came out,
I think 11 years ago or so.
And there was a big, the big meme around that was,
you could take the embedding for the word king,
you could then subtract the embedding for the word man
add the word embedding for woman,
and then the end math result would actually be close
to the embedding for the word queen.
And so what is an embedding?
What's a vector?
It's basically this large floating point number
that has semantic meaning inferred into it.
And it's built just by training a model.
So just like you train a large language model,
they can trade these embedding models
to basically take a word and then take a sentence
and then take a document is what OpenAI can do
and turn that into this big giant,
200, 800, 1500, depending on the size of the embedding,
the floating point numbers,
and then use that as a what's called
semantic similarity search.
So you're basically going off
and asking for similar documents.
And so you get those documents
and then you make your prompt.
- Yeah, wild.
It's really wild.
So we're gonna make an 800 dimensional space
and each concept gets a location in that space.
And then you're gonna get another concept as a prompt.
You say, what other things in this space are near it?
Right? - Right.
Right. - Wild.
- And then what you're,
you know, the hard problems that remain are,
well, first you gotta figure out
what you're trying to solve.
So once you figure out what you're actually trying to solve,
then you can start asking yourself questions like,
okay, well, how do I chunk up the documents that I have?
Right, and there's all these different,
and there's another great place
for Lama Index and LangChain.
They have chunking strategies
where they'll take a big giant document
and break it down into sections.
And then you chunk each section
and then you do the embedding on just that small section.
Because the idea being,
can you get finer and finer sets of texts
that you can then, when you do your retrieval,
you get the right information back.
And then the other challenge
is really like the question answer problem, right?
If a person's asking a question,
how do you turn that question
into the same kind of embedding space as the answer, right?
And so there's lots of different strategies
that are out there for that.
And then another problem is
if you're looking at the Wikipedia page
for the Tower of Pisa,
it might actually have like a sentence in here
that says it is X number of meters tall or feet tall,
but it won't actually have the word Tower of Pisa in it.
So there's another chunking strategy
where they call propositional trunking,
where they basically use a large language model
to actually redefine each sentence
so that it actually has those proper nouns baked into it
so that when you do the embedding,
it doesn't lose some of the detail with propositions.
- It's this tall, but...
It's something that replaces this tall
with its actual height and things like that.
- Correct, correct.
- Okay, crazy.
- But fundamentally, you're working with unstructured data
and it's kind of messy
and it's not always gonna work the way you want.
And there's a lot of challenges
and people are trying lots of different things
to make it better.
- That's cool.
It's not always deterministic or exactly the same,
so that can be tricky as well.
One of the big parts of at least this embedding stuff
you're talking about are vector databases.
And they used to be really rare
and kind of their own specialized thing.
Now they're starting to show up in lots of places.
And you've shared with us this link of VectorDB comparison.
I just saw that MongoDB added it.
I'm like, I didn't know that it had anything to do with that.
I'm probably not gonna mess with it,
but it's interesting that it's just finding its way
in all these different spaces.
- Yeah, it was weird there for a couple of years
where people were basically talking about vector databases
like they're their own separate thing.
The vector databases are now becoming their own
fully fledged either relational database
or a graph database or a search engine.
Those are kind of the three categories for...
I mean, I guess Redis is its own thing too.
But for the most part, those new databases,
quote unquote, are now kind of trying to become
more fully fledged.
And vectors and semantic search
is really just one feature, right?
And yeah.
- I was just thinking that.
Is this thing that you're talking about,
is it a product or is it a feature
of a bigger product, right?
- Correct.
- If you already got a database,
it's already doing a bunch of things.
Could it just answer the vector question?
Maybe, maybe not.
- Exactly right.
Exactly right.
So the one thing to recognize is that...
And then the other thing people do
is they just take NumPy or what have you
and just load them all into memory.
And if you don't have that much data,
that's actually probably gonna be the fastest
and simplest way to work.
But the thing you gotta recognize is the fact
that there is a precision and recall and cost trade-off
that happens as well.
So they have to index these vectors
and there's different algorithms that are used
and different algorithms do better than others.
So you gotta make sure you understand that as well.
So, and one thing that you can do is,
for instance, pgVector,
which is an extension for Postgres,
you can start off by not indexing at all.
And you should get, I believe,
hopefully I'm not misspeaking,
you should get perfect recall,
meaning you'll get the right answer.
You'll get the, if you ask for the five closest vectors
to your query, you'll get the five closest,
but it'll be slower than you probably want.
So then you have to index it.
And then what ends up happening is,
the next time you might only get four of those five.
You'll get something else that snuck into that list.
- Yeah, that's, if you got time,
you're willing to spend unlimited time,
then you can get the right answer, the exact answer.
But I guess that's all sorts of heuristics, right?
You're like, I could spend three days
or I could do a Monte Carlo thing
and I can give you the answer in a fraction of a second.
- Right, right, right.
- But it's not deterministic.
All right, so then I won't go with my camera.
So I turn it off, I don't know what's up.
- Yeah, no worries.
- Yeah, so you wrote a cool blog post
called "What is a Custom GPT?"
And we wanna talk some about building custom GPTs
and with SAPI and so on.
So let's talk about this.
Like one of the, I think one of the challenges
in why it takes so much compute for these systems
is like they're open-ended.
You can ask me any question about any knowledge in the world
in the humankind, right?
You can ask about that, let's start talking.
Or it could be, you can ask me about genetics.
- Right. - Right?
That seems like you could both get better answers
if you actually only care about genetic responses,
not how tall is the Leaning Tower
and probably make it smaller, right?
So is that kind of the idea of these custom GPTs
or what is it?
- No, so custom GPTs are a new capability from OpenAI.
And basically they are a wrapper around,
a very small subset,
but it's still using the OpenAI ecosystem, okay?
And so what you do is you give it a name,
you give it a logo, you give it a prompt.
And then from there, you can also give it knowledge.
You can upload PDF documents to it
and it will actually slice and dice those PDF documents
using some sort of vector search.
We don't know how it actually works.
The GPT, the cool thing is the GPT will work on your phone.
Right, so I have my phone,
I can have a conversation with my phone,
I can take a picture, upload a picture
and it will do vision analysis on it.
So I get all the capabilities of OpenAI GPT-4.
But a custom GPT is one that I can construct
and give a custom prompt to,
which basically then says, okay, now you're,
and to your point, I think maybe this is
where you're going with it,
like, hey, now you're an expert in genomics
or you're an expert in something
and you're basically coaching the language model
in what it can and can't do.
And so basically, it's a targeted experience
within the large language,
within the ChatGPT ecosystem.
It has access to also the OpenAI tools,
like so OpenAI has the ability to do code interpreter
and Dolly, and it can also hit the web browser.
So you have access to everything.
But the interesting thing to me is the fact
that you can actually tie this thing
to what are called actions.
So March, I think of last year,
they actually had this capability
called plugins that they announced.
And plugins have kind of faded to the background.
I don't know if they're gonna deprecate them officially,
but the basic gist with plugins is what was,
you could turn that on and it can then call your API.
And the cool thing about it was
that it read your OpenAPI spec, right?
So you write an OpenAPI spec, which is Swagger,
if you're familiar with Swagger,
and it basically defines what all the endpoints are,
what the path is, what the inputs and outputs are,
including all the classes or field level information
and any constraints or what have you.
So you can fully define your OpenAPI spec.
It can then call that OpenAPI spec,
and it's basically giving it tools.
So like the example that they say in the documentation
is get the weather, right?
So if you say, what's the weather in Boston?
Well, Chetchibt doesn't know the weather in Boston.
All it knows how to do is call it,
but you can call an API and it figures out
how to call the API, get that information,
and then it can use that to redisplay.
And that's a very basic example.
You can do way more complicated things than that,
and it's pretty powerful.
- Okay, that sounds really pretty awesome.
I thought a lot about different things that I might build.
Yeah, I guess on your blog post here,
you've got some key benefits and you've got some risks.
You maybe wanna talk a bit about that?
- Yeah, so the first part with plugins that was wrong,
that didn't work as well,
is that there was no kind of overarching custom instruction
that could actually teach it how to work with your plugin.
So if you couldn't put it in the API spec,
then you couldn't like integrate it
with a bunch of other stuff or other capabilities, right?
So the custom instruction is really a key thing
for making these custom APIs strong.
But one warning about the custom instruction,
whatever you put in there, anybody can download, right?
Not just the folks at OpenAI, anybody.
Like basically there's GitHub projects
where like thousands of these,
the custom prompts that people have put into their GPT.
And there are now knockoffs on GPT.
So it's all kind of a mess right now in the OpenAI store.
I'm sure they'll clean it up,
but just recognize the custom instruction is not protected
and neither is the knowledge.
So if you upload a PDF,
there have been people that have been figuring out
how to like download those PDFs.
And I think that that might be a solved problem now
or they're working on it, but it's something to know.
The other problem with plugins was
I can get a plugin working,
but if they didn't approve my plugin
and put it in their plugin store,
I couldn't share it with other people.
The way it works now is I can actually make a GPT
and I can give it to you and you can use it directly,
even if it's not in the OpenAPI store or OpenAI store.
It is super easy to get started.
They have like a tool to like,
help you generate your DALI picture.
And actually you don't even have to figure out
how to do the custom instructions yourself.
You can just kind of chat that into existence.
But the thing that I'm really excited about
is that this is like free playing.
Like you could do, so the hosting cost
is basically all on the client side.
You have to be a ChatGPT plus user right now
to create these and use these.
But the cool thing as a developer,
I don't have to pay those API fees
that we were talking about, right?
And if I need to use GPT four,
which I kind of do for my business right now,
just because of how complicated it is,
I don't have to pay those token fees
for folks using my custom GPT at this moment.
So, and then the risks go.
- Where's like the billing or whatever you call it
for the custom GPT lie?
Is that in the person who's using it?
Does it have to, it goes onto their account
and whatever their account?
- Yeah, so everyone just, you know,
right now OpenAPI, OpenAI ChatGPT plus is $20 a month.
And then there's a team's version,
which I think is either 25 or 30,
depending on the number of users or how you pay for it.
And then, and that's the cost.
So right now, if you wanna use custom GPTs,
everyone needs to be a ChatGPT plus user.
There's no extra cost based on usage or anything like that.
In fact, there's talk about revenue sharing
between OpenAI and developers of custom GPTs,
but that has not come out yet
as far as like what those details are.
- It does have an app store feel to it, doesn't it?
- Mm-hmm, yep, for sure, for sure.
And then, but there's risks too, right?
Obviously anybody can,
there's already been like tons of copies up there.
OpenAI, you know,
they're looking for their business model too, right?
So they could, if someone has a very successful custom GPT,
it's well within their right to kind of add that
to the base product as well.
And then prompt injection is still a thing.
So if you're doing anything in your actions
that actually changes something,
that is consequential is what they call it,
you better think very carefully,
like what's the worst thing that could happen, right?
'Cause whatever the worst thing that could happen is,
that's what's gonna happen.
'Cause people can figure this stuff out
and they can confuse the large language models
into calling them, right?
- The more valuable it is
that they can make that thing happen,
the more effort they're gonna put into it as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. - For sure, for sure.
And then just in general, you're, oh, go ahead.
- I was gonna ask, do you think,
it's easy to solve SQL injection
and other forms of injection, at least in principle, right?
There's a education problem,
there's millions of people coming along as developers
and they see some demo that says,
the query is like this plus the name, wait a minute.
So it kind of recreates itself through not total awareness,
but there's a very clear thing you do to solve that,
you use parameters, you don't concatenate strings
with user input, problem solved.
What about prompt injection though?
It's so vague how these AIs know what to do
in the first place.
And so then how do you completely block that off?
- Unsolved problem, right?
Like, and I'm definitely stealing from Simon on this
'cause I've heard him say it on a few podcasts
is just basically there's no solution as far as we know.
So you have to design,
and there's no solution to the hallucination problem either
'cause that's a feature, right?
That's actually what the thing is supposed to do.
So when you're building these systems,
you have to recognize those two facts
along with some other facts that really limit
what you can build with these things.
- So you shouldn't use it for like legal briefs,
is that what you're saying?
- Well, once again, I think these things
are great collaborative tools, right?
The human in the loop,
and that's everything that I'm building, right?
So all the stuff that I'm building
is assuming that the human's in the loop
and what I'm trying to do is augment and amplify expertise.
I'm building tools for people that know about genomics
and cancer and how to help cancer patients.
I'm not designing it for cancer patients
who are gonna go operate on themselves, right?
Like that's not the goal.
The idea is there's a lot of information.
These tools are super valuable
from like synthesizing a variety of info,
but you still need to look at the underlying citations
and ChatGPT by itself can't give you citations.
Like it'll make some up.
It'll say, oh, I think there's probably a Wikipedia page
with this link, but you actually have to,
you definitely have to have an outside tool,
either the web, Bing, which is, I would say,
subpar for a lot of use cases,
or you have to have actions
that can actually bring back references
and give you those links.
And then the expert will then say,
oh, okay, great, thanks for synthesizing this,
giving me this info.
Let me go validate this myself, right?
Go click on the link and go validate it.
And that's really, I think that's really the sweet spot
for these things, at least for the near future.
- Yeah, don't ask it for the answer,
ask it to help you come up with the answer, right?
- Exactly right.
And then have it criticize you when you do have something,
'cause then it'll do a great job
of telling you everything you've done wrong.
- I'm feeling too good about myself.
I need you to insult me a lot.
Let's get going.
All right, speaking of talking about ourselves,
you've got this project called PyPI GPT.
What's this about?
- Yeah, so I really wanted to tell people
that FastAPI and Pydantic, 'cause Python,
like we were saying earlier,
I don't know if it was on the call or not,
but Python is the winning language, right?
And I think FastAPI and Pydantic are the winning libraries
in their respective fields, and they're great.
And they're perfect for this space,
because you need an open API spec.
English is the new programming language, right?
So Andrej Koparthe, who used to work at Tesla
and now works at OpenAI, has this pinned tweet
where he's basically like,
"English is the hottest programming language,"
or something like that.
And that's really the truth,
'cause even in this space
where I'm building an open API spec,
99% of the work is thinking about
the description of the endpoints
or the description of the fields
or codifying the constraints on different fields.
You can use these greater thans and less thans
and regexes to describe it.
And so what I did was I said,
"Okay, let's build this thing in FastAPI,"
just to get an example out for folks.
And then I turned it on.
I actually use ngrok as my service layer,
'cause you have to have HTTPS to make this thing work.
So I figured out- - Ngrok is so good.
- Yep, yep. - Yeah, yeah.
- I turned that on with an nginx thing in front of it.
So this library, to actually use it,
you'll have to actually set that stuff up yourself.
You have to download it.
You have to run it.
You have to either get it on a server with HTTPS,
with Let's Encrypt or something.
But then once you've turned it on,
then you can actually see how it generates
the open API spec, how to configure the GPT.
I didn't do much work with regards
to the custom instructions that I came up with.
I just said, "Hey, call my API, figure it out."
And it does.
And so what this GPT does is it basically says,
"Okay, given a package name and a version number,
it's gonna go and grab this data
from the SQLite database that I found
that has this information and then bring it back to you."
It's the least interesting GPT I could come up with, I guess.
But it shows kind of the mechanics, right?
The mechanics of setting up the servers
and the application within FastAPI,
the kind of the little bits they have to flip
to make sure that OpenAI can understand your OpenAPI spec.
I bumble through OpenAI and OpenAPI all the time.
And make sure that they can talk to each other.
And then it will then do the right thing
and call your server and bring the answers back.
And there's a bunch of little flags and information
you need to know about actions
that are on the OpenAPI documentation.
And so I tried to pull that all together
into one simple little project for people to look at.
- It's cool.
So you can ask it questions like,
"Tell me about FastAPI, this version."
And it'll come back and do it.
- Correct.
I was hoping to do something a little better like,
"Hey, here's my requirements file."
And go, "Tell me, am I on the latest version
of everything or whatever?"
Something more interesting.
I just didn't have time.
So-
- Can you ask it questions such as,
"What's the difference between this version
and that version?"
- You could, if that information is in the database.
I actually don't know if it is.
So, and then obviously you could also hit the PyPI server.
And I didn't do that.
I just wanted to, I don't wanna be hitting anybody's server
indiscriminately at this point.
But that would be a great use case, right?
So like someone could take this
and certainly add some capabilities.
The thing that is valuable that I'm trying to showcase
is the fact that ChatGPT and large language models,
while they do have the world's information kind of compressed
at a point in time, they are still not a database, right?
They don't do well when you're basically trying
to make sure you have a comprehensive query
and you've brought back all the information.
And they're also not good
from like a up-to-date perspective, right?
There's a cutoff date.
Thankfully, they finally updated that recently.
I think it's now April of 2023,
but at some point it just doesn't know about newer things.
And so a GPT is a really interesting way of doing that.
Like I'm gonna put it out in the universe
and hopefully someone will do it.
Make me a modern Python GPT,
which is basically like get the new version of Pydantic
and Polars and a few other libraries
that ChatGPT does a bad job at,
just because they're in underactive development
during the time that ChatGPT was getting trained.
So that's the perfect use cases
for these types of custom GPTs with knowledge
in a PDF file or an API backing it up.
- I think there's a ton of value in being able
to feed a little bit of your information,
some of your documents or your code repository
or something to a GPT
and then be able to ask it questions.
- Exactly right.
- Got it right.
- Yeah.
Like, you know, tell me about the security vulnerabilities
that you see in the code.
Like, is there anywhere where I'm missing some test
or I'm calling a function in a way that's known to be bad?
And you know, like that kind of stuff is really tricky,
but it's also tricky because it doesn't,
even if you paste in a little bit of code,
it's not the whole project, right?
So, you know, to put a little bit more in there
is pretty awesome.
- Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, being able to give it, you know,
all the code from some of these code repositories, right?
Like, and bringing back the relevant information.
So I think there is a kind of this race.
There's gonna be other, you know,
there's another cool project called SourceGraph and Cody
that we can talk about that will, you know,
run on your local server and basically indexes
your code base and will bring back relevant snippets
from your code base and answer questions kind of in context.
And, you know, long-term,
and then there's a new project,
or I don't know how new, Codeium,
they had a new paper where they talked about flow engineering
and flow engineering is just basically that same concept
of the human in the loop with the LLM, with the code,
that's the magic combination of kind of those people,
those entities kind of iterating with each other.
So, and I think these, you know,
these tools are definitely gonna evolve
and you really wanna have the ability to have access
to your specific information
to answer your specific questions.
- Cody is new to me.
- Yeah. - Cody.dev.
And it's little subtitle or whatever is,
"Cody is a coding assistant that uses AI.
Understand your code base," right?
It was saying, what was it?
It was about your entire code base,
APIs, implementations, and idioms.
Like that's kind of what I was suggesting,
at least for code, right?
- Yeah, and Sourcegraph,
those folks really understand code indexing and searching.
Like that's what the first product was.
They were kind of just teed up,
ready for this large language model moment.
And then they said, "Oh, let's just put Cody on top of that."
So this thing will run, it will understand your code
and it will kind of bring things together for you.
So, and these folks do podcasts all the time.
I'd reach out to them.
- Okay, yeah, interesting.
It's quite neat looking.
I think I'm gonna give it a try.
It both plugs into PyCharm and VS Code.
So that's pretty neat.
All right, well.
- Very cool.
- Let's see.
So I think we're starting to get a little bit short
on time here, but for people who want to play
with the PyPI GPT, maybe as an example,
to just cut the readme and it's easy to get from there,
what do you need to tell them?
- Yeah, I put a make file in there,
so you know exactly like the steps
to kind of make the environment, download the files,
and just ping me, follow me on Twitter,
I'm or, and ping me if you need anything there.
I'm also on LinkedIn and GitHub, right?
So you can certainly reach out if you have any challenges.
- Excellent.
All right, well, yeah, go ahead.
- Yeah, I'd say like the last thing that I'm, you know,
folks that are actually in the medical space, right?
So the thing that I'm working on right now actively
is how to integrate this thing with our knowledge base,
right?
So I've built a database of hand curated trials,
hand curated therapies and other information.
I've, you know, built it so that, you know,
my custom GPT can actually work with that.
I've come up with some, I'd say novel,
I always haven't seen anybody else
and I haven't seen any research
approaching things the same way I am
that handles some of the other challenges
that are out there, right?
So for instance, the context window is a challenge.
So the context window is the amount of text
that's in there and how it gets processed.
If you're making decisions and you're changing course,
the chatbot will lose track of those changes, right?
So if you're, you know, experimenting
or going down one path of inquiry
and then you switch to another path,
it can get confused and forget that you switched paths.
And it can also--
- It's not a database to hold all that information.
You're like, well, it forgot the last three things,
the first three things you told it.
It only knows four and you think it knows seven
and it's getting incomplete, right?
- Yep.
And, you know, one of the key things is
you actually got to,
you actually want it to forget some things as well, right?
So those are all interesting challenges.
And I'm actually working with these custom GPTs
to kind of change the way that the collaboration works
between the human, the expert,
the large language model or the assistant
and my backend, my actual retrieval model,
the API that's actually doing stuff.
- So are researchers and MDs and PhDs
at your company talking about this thing
and making use of it?
- For sure.
We're, yeah, I mean, we're in active development right now.
We have a few key opinion leaders
that are working with us and collaborating with us,
but we're always looking for more folks
that are in the field that actually are.
And right now you need kind of the cutting edge people
'cause this stuff's not ready for prime time.
Clinical decision support is a really hard problem.
And, but we need the folks that are,
that want to get ahead of it.
'Cause we know that there are doctors
and there are patients that are asking
ChatGPT questions right now.
And even if it says I'm not a medical expert, blah, blah,
blah.
And at the end of the day,
we actually don't have enough doctors, right?
That's the other scary thing
is we don't have enough doctors, patients want answers.
How do we build solutions that can allow this expertise
to get more democratized and more into the folks hands?
And I'm hoping our tool along with
these large language models can help
relieve some of that burden.
- Well, it might not be as 100% accurate, 100% precise,
but neither are doctors, right?
They get stuff wrong.
You just need to be in the realm of as good as a doctor.
You don't need to be completely without making a mistake.
And that's, I think, a challenge
that we're just gonna have to get used to in general, right?
I joked about the legal brief thing
'cause someone got in trouble for submitting a brief
that hallucinations.
And there's certain circumstances
where maybe it's just not acceptable,
but AI self-driven cars, people crash,
but that's like a human mistake.
But when a machine makes it,
it's a pre-programmed, predetermined mistake.
Something like that.
It doesn't feel the same as if the machine made a mistake.
So if a machine makes a recommendation,
like you need this cancer treatment or you're fine,
you don't need it and it was wrong,
people are not gonna be as forgiving.
But it doesn't mean there's not value
to be gained from systems that can help you, right?
- I always appreciate those machine learning papers
that'll show the tracking of over time
of how the models have gotten better and better.
And they put the human in there
and then you can see that the human
has already gotten eclipsed by the models.
And that's a specific problem, right?
'Cause it's not, and also recognizing
that a lot of this stuff, these models that are doing tasks
are doing one specific task.
They're not doing a whole job.
They're not doing an end-to-end process.
They're answering a medical question
or they're looking at an image
and finding all the cats or whatever it's supposed to do.
So, and to your point though,
humans aren't perfect at these tasks either.
- Yeah, I think mostly people are gonna be using
this kind of stuff to help them
come up with these answers, right?
My weird Amazon description example
is gonna be the edge case, not the go-to like.
- Agreed, agreed.
- Yeah, you came in, you spoke to the chat bot,
here's your diagnosis, have a good day, right?
Not so much, more like, I need some help
thinking through this.
What are some studies that have addressed this, right?
And like those kinds of questions.
- Yep, and I hesitate to say it's just a better search
engine 'cause I actually think it's got way more potential
than that.
- I agree.
- It's a conversation, it can iterate back and forth.
And what I'm actually trying to do
is build some state into it, right?
Some structured way of kind of remembering
what the conversation was and using a lot of the techniques
that these large language models are good at
to actually to make that actually happen.
And so that you can actually build a system
so that the human and the assistant and the backend
all kind of know what the other party is thinking about
and that they all work together.
- Nice.
For your genomics custom GPT thing
that you're making internally,
is that gonna become a product eventually
if other people are interested?
Is there some way they can keep tabs on it
or is it just internal only?
- Definitely reach out to me.
So we're building different versions of GPTs.
Like we're gonna have a GPT for our curation team
that curates knowledge.
And we're building a GPT that,
my hope is that it will go to physicians,
to oncologists and genomic counselors
and other providers that could actually use this thing.
Eventually, if it becomes robust enough and stable enough
and I don't feel like we're doing a disservice,
we could certainly make a version of that available
for cancer patients as well.
I would, I'd love to have that.
I just wanna make sure that it's done in a responsible way.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Well, I honestly hope that you actually do such a good job
that we don't have to have cancer research anymore,
but that's-
- That's really the end goal.
Yes, that is definitely the end goal.
And that's really exciting too.
So is that the new drugs that are coming out,
new treatments that are coming out.
It's really just about making sure people are aware of it,
making sure that they're getting the genetic testing
that they need, right?
So if you have a loved one that has,
unfortunately has cancer,
make sure that they're at least asking their doctor
the question about genomic testing
to make sure that they're getting
the best possible treatment.
- Sure.
Sounds good.
All right, well, quickly, before we get out of here,
recommendation on some libraries,
some project that maybe we haven't talked about yet.
Something you could possibly,
like, oh, this would be awesome.
- Yeah, well, we ran out of time.
I was gonna talk about some of these pedantic projects.
So there's Marvin Instructor and Outlines.
So folks should definitely look at those.
So basically what you do is you take,
you can describe stuff as pedantic,
and then it'll actually just extract it
right into that Pydantic model for you.
So Marvin and Outlines and Instructor.
So check those guys out, they're awesome.
And then the other one that I actually had teed up
was Visicalc.
So Visicalc is like this crazy command line tool.
It's awesome.
Like you can basically look at giant CSV files
all on the command line.
It has like these hotkeys that you can do.
- Okay.
- And it, sorry, not visit count, visit data.
- Visit data, okay.
- Visit data.
And so basically it's just,
it's basically Excel inside your terminal.
And this was before Rich and the Textual project.
And it was just like, it was kind of mind blowing,
all the stuff that this person was able to figure out
how to make work.
- Yeah, that's super amazing.
I just wanted to give a shout out one more thing,
'cause your visit data reminded me of something
I just came across called Btop.
- Yep, yep, yep.
- If people have servers out there
and they need to know what's going on with their server,
where's my, I need a picture for this.
But yeah, it's like a nice visualization.
I don't know why there's no pictures on this homepage.
Oh well, but yeah, check it out.
There's also a BPytop.
It's pretty amazing what people can do in the terminal,
right?
- Yeah, it's awesome.
- It's like, I don't know where the,
there used to be pictures in this, whatever.
Oh, there they are.
They're just responsive design themselves out.
But yeah, if you want a bunch of live graphs,
every time I see stuff like this,
the visit data or this,
or what the textual folks are working on,
it's just like, I can't believe they built this, right?
Like I'm working at the level of Colorama.
This string is right here.
- Right, right, right.
- And they're like, oh yeah.
- I got an emoji to show up, right?
I'm excited.
- Yes, exactly, yes.
A rocket ship is there, not just text.
- Yeah, pretty excellent.
All right, well, Ian, thank you for being here.
And keep up the good work.
I know so many people are using LLMs,
but not that many people are creating LLMs.
And as developers, we love to create things.
We already have the tools to do it.
People can check out your GitHub repo on the PyPI and GPT
and use it as a starting place, right?
- Sounds great.
Yeah, and definitely reach out if you have any questions.
- Excellent, well, thanks for coming back on the show.
Catch you later.
- Great, good to talk to you, bye-bye.
- Yeah, you bet, bye.
(No audio)